# Changelog

## UNRELEASED
* TODO: Make right click more intuitive/obvious
* TODO: Make ESCAPE open a pause menu
* TODO: Make ALT-TAB work
* TODO: reverse gravity is cool, planets need some kind of particle effect pushing away to very obviously show where the field is strong, its not intuitive like normal gravity
* TODO: Make SphereTerrain actaully render something
* TODO: Fix bouncing on terrain bug
  * Possibly related: Fix being able to walk off terrain
* Finally fix portals rendering improperly
* Add Andrew's music

## 6/22/2026 Messing Around, Finalizing Levels
* Added `Disintegrate` a `CircleTerrain` that disappears for a time when stepped on
* Added `BigGear`, a larger, carryable gear that needs to be carried to a receiver
* Added the `ObjReceiver`, an object that does something when receiving an object, basically a generalized `BarrelReceiver`
  * Added `BigGearReceiver`
* `LaserBeamer` now saves its starting location, preventing them from wandering every time we save
* Made some slightly better docs for `accessSetter`
* `GravityStream` and `GravitySwitch` have been reworked (again)
  * `GravitySwitch` is no longer used
  * `GravityStream` is now a constant stream of force that moves a player in a specific direction. 
* Added the `HOLE` block type, which has 20% more gravity. Currently unused
* Added `onDeserialize`, a function to be called specifically when an object is added in the editor 
* Removed some of the barrel tossing puzzles. They honestly feel lame af.
* Added a convenience portal to layer 4
* Finished levels for demo


## 5/26/2026 World Map UI Updates
* World Map now has a gradient ellipse for each level
  * It actually looks kinda like how I want it to look now, as opposed to a placeholder
* `StateLoader` class was added to keep track of the Game's state. This is useful because we don't ALWAYS want to render the player and the level
  * Might remove later? It kind of overlaps with `Interface`. One or the other will probably go in a future update

## 5/17/2026 Multhreading 
* When loading a world, loading is now multhreaded
  * Each layer is loaded independently into a preload stated called a PreLayer by a thread
  * Then on the main thread, each PreLayer is sequentially loaded.
  * Loading a world now goes from about 6 seconds to a little more than 1
  * A lot of lag still comes from having a lot of objects resolve physics at the beginning of a level's load
  * Loading objects in a thread prevents FrameBuffers from being made, which notably messes with Portal rendering, which is broken rn

## 5/10/2026 World Map and Level Resize
* Levels are now 3000x3000
* when in the air, only the top 75% of the player can collide with the ground, this prevents jumps from getting cut early
* GravitySwitch now applies a very strong gravitational force in one direction as opposed to flipping gravity
* Halved the strength of anti gravity
* Adjusted Level 0-1 slightly to make room for the lifepod
  * Added the lifepod object, currently unused
* Added the battery you can take out of the rover
* Added a super ass version of the world map
  * You can now swap to world 1 via it
* GlobalTerrain now reuses RenderTextures when loading textures
* Terrain now has only a 3000x3000 texture as opposed to 9000x9000. When drawn, the blocks are drawn 3 times bigger to compensate
* Outlines of terrain are now generated by shader.

## 4/19/2026, Signals Update 
* Added the `signals` system, which allows for level configs to trigger C++ code via strings
* Fixed a bug causing parallel horizontal lines to count as intersecting when they were not on the same `y`
* Added rectangular moving terrain (their collision is ass around the corners)
* Removed the `pointInRectAngle` function (literally never used and has a confusing name)

## 4/11/2026 
* Removed Barrel's Factory to prevent it from being saved in EDITOR mode.
* Improved Circle Collider's collision with terrain
* Aiming now draws an arrow
* Massively overhauled the Camera:
  * The Camera is no longer owned by Globals::Game, and instead is managed by GameCamera, a wrapper class, which Globals::Game has an instance of.
  * GameCamera has a unique queue system for queuing up camera movements for smooth transitions. `GameCamera::startQueue` will cause all camera movement options to be "queued up" in Sequences. `GameCamera::stopQueue` stop the queueing. Until all queued function calls are finished, no other camera movement is allowed.
  * This implementation has these advantages:
    * Allows for very obvious camera control. The `start/stopQueue` functions clearly delineate not only when control is grabbed but also the order in which the camera will move.
    * Allows Camera state to be checked when a movement is done, as opposed to when the sequence is made.
  * This implentation has some disadvantages:
    * Respecting the "lock" is entirely up to the developer. Any functions that may change the state need to have a big `if` at the beginning checking for lock status. Same with `queueing` status.
    * The way the whole thing works is a little unintuitive. When a camera needs to do a transition, it has to push to the front of the sequence a series of `RunThis`. However, when queueing up actions, every function call is pushed to the back. If a function wants to call a function that does a transition and add to that transition, any transition additions have to be done in reverse order.
    * Reliance on lambda captures means that if `GameCamera` goes out of scope before `Sequences`, there may be memory issues. This is unlikely, however, as `GameCamera` is only owned by the global singleton.
* Refactored `lineBlockIntersect` and `lineTerrainIntersect` to be more flexible
  * Player now only counts as `onGround` if on solid ground, all other objects can be on any non-air surface
* `Generic Spawner` now only spawns objects after first interaction
* Added a section to layer 1 of world 1 with some terrain pod stuff

## 3/24/2026 (andrew-music-demo)
* Changed how moveFunc works:
  * MoveFunc now supports being used by all classes, as opposed to just MovingTerrain
  * MoveFunc now operates not on an ever increasing counter but rather a set number of frames (kind of like how spritesheet animations loop)
* Project has been slightly reconfigured to support the move to VSCode, o7 Code::Blocks
* Added Andrew's music!! And the blank version when turned off
* Temporarily made it so the rover spawns at teh beginning for easy debugging
* Changed world 0 layer 1's layout slightly to make a gear easier to get, due to the physics changes (still way too hard lmao)
* Brought back the player facing the direction of gravity, except its the direction of terrain now

## 3/18/2026:
* Added destroy lasers and the big gravity room
* Added down gravity and point gravity

## 3/4/2026:
* Added a very cute push bot, and its big brotehr
* Added support for water, though no player-specific controls
* Added the glowstone, which spawns a portal upon being pushed by a pushbot.
* Removed angle being determined by gravity
* Invalid sprites now have an "error" sprite as opposed to a warning message
* Improved how to add new factories
* Player can slow down in the air by pressing backwards 

## 2/17/2026:
* Removed non-freefall gravity being different from freefall gravity
  * Freefall now instead determines whether or not the player faces the direction of gravity. 
  * All 360 degrees of gravity will be accounted for, regardless of freefall status
  * Freefall is now no longer a result of not being affected by ground gravity, and instead is a player-unique mechanic
    * Player is significantly more likely to leave planet gravity when in freefall
    * Freefall is automatically turned on when long jumping and boosting and lasts until landing
* Jumping normally now causes the player to face in the direction of gravity, making sticking to planets easier
* Added barrels and the ability to throw them
* Added death animation
* improved controls when in the air
* Added moving terrain!
* lasers!

## 1/21/2026:

* Self destruct now ticks down as opposed to going down straight to 0. 
* Removed running and increased time it takes to reach max speed
* Can no longer change facing while in the air, moving against the direction of facing will not slow air force
* Added a (slightly better) visual indicator for boosting
* Added laser beamer
* Added World loading
* woo 2026!

## 12/31/2025 (mvp-12-31-2025):

* Fixed minor bug with self-destruct UI not showing up

## 12/30/2025 (mia-test-12-30-2025):

* Added music
* Created Sound Library for sounds
* Added help text for resetting and interacting with objects
* Getting stuck in freefall will now eventually tell the player to press Z
* Added main menu
  * Hitting play plays a zoom out "cutscene"
  * Moved level 1 stuff around to better suit the cutscene
* Added a tutorial sign for boosting
* Added a (very bad) sprite for when boosting
* Added indicator to right-click to read signs
* Sprites no longer messes with pointers, no need!
* Added animations, and the ability to switch between them
  * Currently only applied to Rover

## 12/25/2025:

* Added respawning and resetting objects that were collected in the air
* Made terrain detection more accurate
  * Whether a block at a point is of a certain type now is now dependeng on not only itself, but also its neighbors, if the given point is on an edge
* Terrain is now rendered before entities as a temporary workaround to the depth problem
* Added boosting
* Added levels 2 and 3

## 12/17/2025:

* Levels now load player position on the 2nd line
* Added collectibles:
  * Added interface counter for collectibles
* Portal now has a gray tint if locked
* Portal locked conditions have been added, and can be deserialized/serialized
* Added Antigravity and support for more than just binary blocks
* Added long jump
* Added signs and their serializations
* Layer 1 is now fully playable!
* Turned on Antialiasing
* New background! based off a radial way of generating background stars

## 11/28/2025:

* Fixed some bugs with friction not actually affecting the individual forces
* Moving against the edge of the screen bounces players in the opposite direction, like a pong paddle
* Player movement is now a force, to make it consistent with the aforementioned behavior
* Some player movement tweeks
* Gravity affect radius is now affected by whether object is in freefall or not.
* Gravity is now a constant value
